**CitiBike Analysis**

**_NOTE_** _The data used in this analysis is merely random samples from each month during the year of 2019.  As such, the findings stated below in my analysis should be taken lightly._

For this assignment I chose to look at CitiBike sample data by month from the year 2019.  The data included information such as: Trip Duration, Start/Stop Time and Date, Start/End Station Names and IDs, Station Latitude and Longitude, Bike ID, User Type, Gender, and Year of Birth. 
Given the information I chose to create two dashboards, one that would allow the user to analyze Demographic information as it relates to trips over time and another that would allow the user to analyze individual Citibike stations.
For the Demographic Dashboard, the user is able to dynamically create a plethora of different visualizations by manipulating the dropdowns to the right.  The two bar charts shown consist of the exact same data, just visualized in different ways.  One is broken out primarily by time, while the other breaks it out by chosen Demographic and then time.  
As I navigated the Demographic Dashboard I made some interesting findings!  As one would expect, the primary users of Citibike tend to be in their 20’s or 30’s and trips take place more often during the months where weather is favorable.  What’s interesting however is that although users in their 20’s and 30’s use the bikes more, users in their teens and 50’s then to take longer trips.  This could be because users in their teens and 50’s tend to ride bikes for either leisure or exercise while the 20’s and 30’s may use them more as a commute to and from work.  When I began to look at Usertype, it was clear that the majority of users are Subscribers.  However, like the age demographic before the Subscribers may use the bikes more, but the Customers tend to take longer trips.  This provides further merit to my previous assertion.  Another interesting find here is that there is an unusual spike to trip duration by single use customers in December.  I would consider this finding an anomaly that probably would correct itself when using the entire Citibike datasets rather than just random samples.  When navigating through Gender, you’ll see that trip duration is split evenly between male and female riders, but Unknown is high.  This correlates to the fact that the majority of single use customers take longer trips than those who are subscribers.  My theory is that single use customers probably leave a lot of the demographic data blank or only fill out as much as they have to in order to rent a bike.  When viewed by the number of trips, men tend to take far more than females or unknowns.  
As I navigated the Map/Station Dashboard I made some interesting findings as well!  Stations that held the longest average trip durations tended to linger on the outskirts of the map.  My theory here is that they would rent a bike outside the city and use it to get around in the city to avoid city traffic and ridiculous car parking fees.  As a result, they would have had to rent the bikes for longer periods of time.  Conversely, when you look at the number of trips, the stations with more tend to center around the heart of the city.  My theory here is that these uses are for quick trips and are more often used than the longer planned out rides.  From a cursory glance, the most popular station overall is the Pershing Square North with over 3,000 trips!  This makes sense as the station is located more toward the heart of the city.  The station with the longest average trip duration is the Sip Ave.  This too makes sense as it is so far away from the city that it’s out in Jersey City! _(**Note** you need to be filtered on End Stations to see this one)._  It was also interesting to see how the stations varied by month when playing with the month drop down.  Like before, the number of trips would increase when the weather was more favorable and decrease when it wasn’t.  
Overall it appears as though the primary users are Men between the ages of 20 and 39 who like to take short but frequent trips in the heart of the city.  I invite you to play around with the dashboards to make some discoveries of your own!
